Prepared for submission to the a Loebb for Space and Cosmology University 380009
Department University 60 Garden St.
MA 02138 between the mass and the cosmological constant Λhave some interesting
We show that in any approach which leads to a between the mass and Λ either
through direct substitution of coupling in dispersion or through the
linearization of spin2 the of the lies in the a result any gravitational where
the mass is related directly to constant are of no observational grqc 15 Nov
Introduction 1
2 Cosmological Mass Correspondence 1
3 Observational 3
1 notion of a nonzero mass has substantial attention in recent years
both as a fundamental question in high energy physics and for its potential and
In standard of general as massless spin2 gauge consistent with GR’s invariance
under and the consequent nature of gravitational However which include of GR and
such as massive gravity allow for a small but mass for mgsee [1] for an extended
nonGR propose by which mass could emerge even introduce to the law at
cosmological scales and the structure of interest has hence been laid towards
finding appropriate on the based on the LIGO collaboration [2] and other [3].
Recently a on the mass was derived [4] using of the CMB dipole were made to
relate the cosmological constant with the mass. Such was firstly found by using
a linearization approach to the in a background [6]. Here we show that one can
arrive at such a relation using much as well. We then discuss the observational
of the Cosmological Mass initial approach towards a direct correspondence
between the mass mgand Λ this case is
Λ naturally from field equation for gravity a constant as well as from the of
motion for a massive spin2 field a It was also shown that the field has only two
of the mass is of the form by (2.1) and five of freedom again comes from
essentially gravity and remains true also if the are with 10. The claim is that
in order for one to extra of freedom at least in a dS background the mass must
be form can consider an alternate approach towards reaching at a relation
similar to (2.1) as
– 1 The plasma dispersion relation for an effective photon mass. in a plasma the
dispersion relation is to ωis the photon frequency k is the wave vector and c is
the speed of equivalent to a relativistic energy expression here the mass mγis
given by with the plasma frequency e is the electron charge neis the number
density of and meis the For the gravitational coupling can be analogously
defined by electromagnetic coupling Gm2 where Gis the gravitational a mass ρis
the mass Using the density parameter Ω defined as Ω the Hubble constant we can
further express mgin terms of cosmological holds for any form of energy density
from matter or the constant Λ. Finally the cosmological constant Λcan be
expressed in terms density parameter to dark energy defined as Λ Substituting
into the mass relation above we find that
Λ see that (2.5) is very similar to (2.1) only by a factor can discuss the
relation of Λin light of gravitational dispersion [11]. The dispersion relation
for general gravitational waves in a medium case takes the form1 ϵis the thermal
energy density of the medium which could refer to dark energy forms of matter
too. For the energy density of dark energy ϵ=ρΛ the (2.6) comes out to 8G we
arrive at
Λ is similar to (2.1) and (2.5) by a factor of order unity from both of reader
might be interested to know that there have been other prospective forms of put
forward over the years for example in [12 13.
 2 –

3 Observational are the potential observational here? The of λgis considering a
relationship between the mass and the cosmological (2.1) we find that λgcan be
further expressed in terms of the Hubble length the expression 5.3lh
relationship that in the case of (2.1) or (2.5) or (2.8) λgis multiple times lH
the Hubble radius or the observable horizon around 6 in the case of (2.1) while
about 3.5 times for (2.8) and 5 times for 2.5. Thus
the of the significantly the scale of the and this has important any physical
effects associated with a mass in this regime would occur on scales far beyond
the reach of effectively making the mass irrelevant for any cosmological
phenomena we could detect within our any theoretical that attempt to directly
link the cosmological to a nonzero mass either through the approach for (2.1)
coupling approach for for (2.5) or the gravitational dispersion relation faces a
fundamental In other words a mass in this context produce any measurable from
general relativity on cosmological scales such impractical for explaining
observable cosmic acceleration or other related to Λ. This effectively the
utility of that try to relate Λto
a mass within the scope of observable cosmology as the would be undetectable
across accessible further appreciate the generality of our here one may examine
extended of the In particular we explore two of the first is grounded in
Generalized Uncertainty (GUP) 16
19 while the second from in physics GUP represent of the uncertainty principle
theoretical from various quantum gravity string theory
loop quantum gravity and several of black hole The GUP with a minimal length
scale can be expressed as [14] might note that while these were derived in the
context of the the underlying of the forms hold true. Its essentially a constant
his used instead of ℏas in [14 15and the by GUP or are in a form that remains
mathematically 3 the mass. A further modification for GUP that length and
maximal momentum is given by that the be either positive or negative while their
not going much beyond O13. Additionally one may formulate the a space as [15] a
single length scale associated with the of all in which matter may freely
propagate which has the following form for of n [27] are now interested in
seeing whether the (2.1) (2.5) and (2.8) observationally relevant after the of
If we take (2.1) for illustration essential carry over to the too) the GUP (3.3)
takes the form
1 we used the definition of the mass The second term in the the right hand side
in (3.7) is very small in fact it is so small one can ignore it unless (3.4) the
form sees that the will remain unchanged as the correction term in in (3.8) is
really small again and can be This goes to show that GUP based to the are unable
to relevant for the Finally in the event of higher to the (3.5) we arrive at the
following form might be tempting to see that the form of n in the exponent could
apparently make to reduce the which is indeed the case. For example in case
extra spatial dimension n= 1 the (3.9) λg∼ is indeed not however this falls
almost 5 of magnitude lesser interested reader is directed to the following
works for varied on these 4

the latest on the from the CMB dipole higher number of extra the interesting n=
scale is well below the observational From this it is clear remains
observationally irrelevant even after exotic high work was in part by Black Hole
Initiative which is funded by JFT and de Rham J Tate J and Zhou. of Modern
Physics R H Abe F K N RX VK VB Adya
C D Agarwal et al. Tests of general relativity with arXiv Particle Data Group RL
Workman VD V Crede E U Thoma L
K G BC et al. Review of particle Progress of theoretical physics Loeb. A new
limit on the mass from the convergence scale of the arXiv preprint N C M M F J
C AJ RB JG et al. 2013 of the cmb: Eppur si Astronomy & Astrophysics Mario and
RP The mass of the and the cosmological and Quantum Gravity Liu Liao. On the
gravitational wave in de sitter Martin A note on the local cosmological constant
and the dark energy Classical and Quantum Gravity and Marc Effect of the
cosmological on general Classical and Quantum Gravity Mario The mass of the and
the cosmological constant arXiv and Steven Gravitational waves in cold dark D E
Asseo D J and M kinetic theory of waves in
a massive particle Physical Review D Deepen Garg and I. Y. Gravitational wave
modes in JCAP J. Lake and Carr. The correspondence de JHEP 11105 J Lake and
Carr. The in higher preprint 5

16 A Generalized uncertainty principle in quantum Phys. Lett. B J. Adler Pisin
Chen and David I. The Generalized uncertainty principle hole Gen. Rel. Grav.
Abdel and Abdel Diab. Review on Generalized Uncertainty Prog. Phys. Fabio
Generalized uncertainty principle in quantum gravity from micro - black Phys.
Lett. B Amati Marcello and Can be string size? Physics B Quantum gravity and the
generalized uncertainty Review D Fabio and Elias GUP parameter from to the Phys.
Lett. B T. G. G. and A. Noncommutative and generalized uncertainty Eur. Phys. J.
C 79295 Luca and Principle and Corpuscular Eur. Phys. J. C A higher order gup
with minimal length uncertainty and maximal B A higher order gup with minimal
length uncertainty and maximal Physics B Nima Savas and Gia The hierarchy
problem and at a Physics B 6 –